---
layout: post
title: Week 1
---

## Diving Into Open Source

### What is open source?

When I hear "open source", i think of a collaborative project where anyone can contribute. With open source, you can have a large number of people working on the project at any given time, encompassing a wide range of skills and knowledge. However, with closed source, the code remains secret so it cannot be taken and used for something else.

I registered for a class about open source software development because I wanted to develop my skills as a programmer. This not only includes actual programming know-how, but also the nuances of real-world programming, such as collaborating with others, writing documentation, and learning how a project can be involved in the tech ecosystem as a whole.

### Open source projects that I like

[uBlock Origin](https://github.com/gorhill/uBlock) - A Google Chrome extension that removes a lot of the clutter and annoyances on the web. Whenever I use the internet, uBlock Origin is always on in the background. There are many alternative adblockers, but I like uBlock Origin because it is simple and efficient.

[Dark Reader](https://github.com/darkreader/darkreader) - Also a Chrome extension, Dark Reader turns any website into a dark theme, making web browsing easier on the eyes. I cannot stand looking at white backgrounds on my computer, and unfortunately, most websites have light backgrounds with no option for a dark mode. The extension fiddles with the CSS to turn any website into one with a dark mode. While there are some extensions that provide dark themes for specific websites, there aren't really any that do quite what Dark Reader does - dark themes for the entire internet.

[Reddit Enhancement Suite](https://github.com/honestbleeps/Reddit-Enhancement-Suite) - Also known as RES, it is an extension that enhances the browsing experience on [Reddit](https://reddit.com). I browse Reddit almost daily, and RES provides so many features that the vanilla website really should have, but doesn't. I've used it for so long that I probably couldn't stand using Reddit without it.

[OBS Studio](https://github.com/obsproject/obs-studio) - A desktop application that allows the user to record and stream video from their computer. Before OBS Studio, screen recording software was either behind a paywall, or free but clunky. OBS Studio makes recording and streaming easy, accessible, and free. I often use it to stream or record my gameplay, and I also frequently watch videos and livestreams that OBS Studio makes possible.