---
layout: post
title: Week 8
---

## Starting to Contribute

My group for contributing to open source chose to work on React. This week, our group all tried to find issues in the React repository that we could start off with as we get involved in React. After looking through the existing issues, we realized that it was difficult to find a beginner-friendly issue. Additionally, working on the React source code itself is not quite the same as working in React, which is what we all actually wanted to do.

So instead, we are thinking about switching our project to one that actually utilizes React in the way we wanted (like React components). I found a few projects that might fit the bill, such as: [Material UI](https://github.com/mui-org/material-ui), [Hyper](https://github.com/zeit/hyper), [React Virtualized](https://github.com/bvaughn/react-virtualized), and [React Beautiful DnD](https://github.com/atlassian/react-beautiful-dnd). In addition to this, I am also going through some tutorials so that I can learn the basics of React, since I do not have prior experience with it. Next week, we will have decided on a project that uses React, and go on from there.

## Wikipedia

Wikipedia is amazing, not only in its wealth of information, but also in how free and open it is. The type of people that contribute to Wikipedia are likely people that want to give back to the world and like to learn about new things. It's for many of the same reasons that people contribute to open source software, minus the code. I would likely not become a contributor, because if I wanted to do this kind of work, I would probably contribute to open source software instead (I don't really like writing).

In order to pick articles that I want to contribute to, I would look up pages related to my extracurricular interests, like gaming and music.

how will you select the articles to contribute as part of the required contributions for this class?
watch and comment of the TED talk that Jimmy Wales gave on the Birth of Wikipedia in 2005 (did you find any ideas and topics that were out of date?) 