---
layout: post
title: Week 5
---

## Licenses & Installing a Development Environment

### Open Source Licenses

The project that I evaluated last week, [if me](https://github.com/ifmeorg/ifme), uses the [GNU Affero General Public License (AGPL) version 3](https://github.com/ifmeorg/ifme/blob/master/LICENSE.txt). The AGPLv3 is almost the same as the GPLv3, which stipulates that users can run, share, and modify the software in whatever way they want. However, modifications must document the changes made, and must also be under the same license. The AGPLv3 just adds an additional clause that users that interact with the software over network have the right to receive a copy of the source code (because the project is a website).

### Attemping to Install a Development Environment

This weekend I attempted to install the develpoment environment for if me. The if me wiki has [instructions for installation](https://github.com/ifmeorg/ifme/wiki/Installation), which seemed pretty clear to me. However, it took *a lot* longer than I thought it would for the installation process. if me uses Ruby and Rails, which I had zero experience in. I also had no experience in any of the technologies listed below, which made installation and troubleshooting more difficult.

First, I went with a "fast" installation option involving Docker. I downloaded Docker, but couldn't get it to work with Git Bash. So I decided to instead do the longer, "local" installation. This involved first installing PostgreSQL (which I don't think I even set up right), and then installing Ruby next. It was fairly easy to download the current version of Ruby (2.6.1), but the problem was that if me uses an older version of Ruby (2.3.4). Downgrading meant using Ruby Version Manager (RVM), which gave me a lot of trouble. After much troubleshooting and Googling, I found out that RVM does not support Git Bash. I also learned that Ruby and Rails, as a whole, are difficult to work with on Windows (what I use).

While troubleshooting, I also learned about [Windows Subsystem for Linux (WSL)](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/wsl/about), which gives you the ability to run a Linux environment on Windows. After setting up Linux via WSL, I once again followed the development environment installation instructions. I got a lot farther with WSL, but still ran into issues. I was able to troubleshoot through a few of them, but ultimately got stuck on running the development and test databases for the app.

I spent many hours (more than I'm willing to admit) trying to install the development environment, but after much frustration, I eventually gave up. if me has many contributors, so I'm sure a lot of them had no trouble with installation. The instructions were pretty thorough, but it's hard to forsee all the problems that people could have with different computer setups. Maybe figuring out the installation would have been easy for someone with experience working with Ruby and Rails, but since I did not, there wasn't much I could do.