---
layout: post
title: Week 10
---

## The Cathedral and The Bazaar, cont.

Some more lessons from *The Cathedral and The Bazaar* and my thoughts:

> Perfection (in design) is achieved not when there is nothing more to add, but rather when there is nothing more to take away.

I touched on this lesson in my last blog post, but I'll elaborate more here. Perfection in design is about being as minimal as possible while still doing the job. Doing the hard work during design to have a minimal product means less overhead, clutter, and possible points of failure when the product is released to be used.

> Often, the most striking and innovative solutions come from realizing that your concept of the problem was wrong.

The ability to reassess is one of the most important skills a problem-solver can have. It's easy to get stuck in a certain way of thinking once you've approached a problem. If your concept of the problem is wrong, then it's unlikely that you'll be able to come up with an effective solution.

>Any tool should be useful in the expected way, but a truly great tool lends itself to uses you never expected.

When possible, a general tool is usually better to have than a specific tool (as long as it doesn't compromise on its effectiveness in the intended use-case). Designing a tool for general use cases is difficult but makes the tool so much more valuable. It's the reason why we try our best as programmers to write dynamically flexible code instead of just hardcoding values.

## Team Project Updates

This week, our group worked on [#14897](https://github.com/mui-org/material-ui/issues/14897), which involved providing TypeScript versions of existing JavaScript demos for Material UI. I provided 3 new TypeScript demos in our PR [#15323](https://github.com/mui-org/material-ui/pull/15323), which was merged a few days ago. I didn't know any TypeScript before this, but now I know that it's basically JavaScript with static type-checking (among other things). Next week we'll be working on some more TypeScript versions of demos, as well as looking for a more "involved" issue (such as creating new demos).