---
layout: post
title: Week 11
---

## Open Source at Work

I've always heard that many tech companies are involved in open source, but it was interesting to hear from Kevin Fleming how this involvement took shape. Although I didn't understand most of the technical details he talked about, it seems to me that a company sees a useful open source project, tailors it for its own needs, and contributes the additions back upstream. Companies integrate many open source technologies in their software because oftentimes, you can find an open source project that does the job better than anything produced in-house. I found it amazing how incredibly fast Bloomberg's software has to be, while at the same time dealing with an enormous amount of data.

## Team Project Updates

This week, I worked on finding a way to make a code contribution. It was difficult for me to find an issue that was easy enough for me to tackle, as I am not very familiar with React yet. Material UI does have a "good first issue" tag, but I still couldn't understand a lot of them. I finally found [#15316](https://github.com/mui-org/material-ui/issues/15316), where clicking a slider thumb does not put the focus on it. This is an accessibility issue because it would allow people to use the keyboard to control the slider after clicking it. I commented on the issue a few days ago, but still haven't received a response, so today I opened a pull request for it. I believe I found the file that needs to be changed and what to add to it, but I asked for guidance from a maintainer/knowledgable contributor because I wasn't 100% sure. I should be finished with this PR next week. For this next week, I also want to try to find a more challenging issue that perhaps the whole team could figure out together.