---
layout: post
title: Week 9
---

## The Cathedral and The Bazaar

Eric S. Raymond defines two models of software development: the cathedral model, and the bazaar model. The cathedral model is what you think of when you think of traditional software development. In this model, there are a small number of developers working on the project, with releases few and far between. The bazaar model, which is used in open source, is the opposite - a large number of developers (as many as you can get, really), with frequent releases. The cathedral model keeps ideas and development internal, whereas the bazaar model promotes the openness of ideas and collaboration with the community.

I personally prefer the bazaar model, which allows for projects to develop at a speed that is unparalleled. Having a massive number of contributors in an collaborative community not only means more man hours on code, but also more eyes to catch bugs, and more heads to brainstorm ideas. The Cathedral and The Bazaar essay also features 19 lessons. Many of these only apply in the context of open source, but there were a few I found interesting that were more generally applicable, not only beyond open source, but beyond software development as a whole:

> Often, the most striking and innovative solutions come from realizing that your concept of the problem was wrong.

I like this quote because it describes the importance of always reevaluating one's current situation. Reframing the problem and thinking about it in a different way often leads to solutions that wouldn't have been thought of otherwise.

> Perfection (in design) is achieved not when there is nothing more to add, but rather when there is nothing more to take away.

I agree a lot with this statement, and with the mentality of elegance - simplicity, cohererence, and powerfulness. Having a complicated mechanism that does a lot is easy - having a simple mechanism that accomplishes the same amount is much more difficult.

## Free Software vs. Open Source

"Free software" and "open source" are terms that are commonly used interchangeably, but don't necessarily mean the same thing. In a practical sense, the two are nearly the same, although open source is sometimes more restrictive than free software. The difference lies in the reasoning and philosphy behind it. Free software respects a user's freedom to do what they want with the software (look at, execute, redistribute, modify, etc.). Open source, on the other hand, focuses on the practical advantages that come with collaborative and open software development.